The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Raider, by Don Berry

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: The Raider

Author: Don Berry

Release Date: October 8, 2019 [EBook #60460]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE RAIDER ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                              THE RAIDER

                             BY DON BERRY

                  _He was a hunter with a Cause that
                 transcended all law. But, now, could
                  the Cause forgive him his service?_

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
               Worlds of If Science Fiction, April 1958.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


They dropped the raider on the night side, less than thirty miles from
Thanlar, the capitol city. The dark, slim ship drifted silently to the
ground, discharged its passenger and lifted again, moving slowly like
a great shark in the night. On the way out into space, it was caught
by the defense screens of Thanlar and disappeared in a gout of flaming
energy that lit up the entire night sky.

The raider did not see it; he was already asleep.

He slept, and his dreams were troubled by images of a familiar face.
Strong cheekbones, the mane of white hair, the famous half-smile of
Mayne Landing, Earth Commissioner to the Colony Planets. Mayne Landing,
the gentle representative of Terra to her children, the kindly old
gentleman with the fist of steel, the benevolent despot over a hundred
Colony Planets.

Mayne Landing: victim.

The raider woke with the dawn, a dawn that was slightly more red-tinged
than the sun he was used to. He gathered his small store of equipment
together and cached it in the low scrub of the surrounding forest. By a
clear, sparkling stream he washed, wincing slightly from the shock of
the too-cold water against his face.

He wore clothes indistinguishable from the other farmers of this
district, slightly shabby, a uniform dun color. They did not fit him
well, but they could not hide the wide shoulder and slim waist. Well,
it didn't matter: the farmers of this planet, like all the Colonies,
had to work hard to scrape their meager living from the rocky soil.
They were all in good condition; he would not be conspicuous.

He finished washing and dried himself on the sleeve of his jumper. Then
he began to walk down the rocky hill to the village that stood in the
tiny valley below. In the early sun, the tiny assemblage of white clean
houses sparkled like a handful of sand-polished shells clustered on a
beach. He stopped for a moment, halfway down, looking at the village.

It was a nice little place, he thought. Peaceful in the early light,
calm. There were a few people moving about the streets, probably
farmers early on their way to the fields. It was a pastoral scene, like
something he had read in a book a long time ago.

_Nice_, he thought. _Quiet. I wonder what it will be like when I'm
finished here._

It didn't pay to think about things like that. Not in his business.

He let his eyes shift slightly to take in the tall towers of Thanlar,
just visible over the crest of hills on the other side of the valley.
Thanlar, the capitol. That was his concern. That was what he had to
think about, not the village.

He sighed once, started down the hill again, walking slowly, picking
his way through the loose rocks with care.

As he neared the village, he passed several crews of men going out into
the fields. He greeted them in Interlingua, and they replied shortly,
without curiosity. He knew he was a stranger to them; they did not
recognize him, but they showed no curiosity. These days, curiosity was
not much advantage to anyone, he thought. The farmers had probably
learned long ago not to show too much interest in any stranger who
suddenly appeared from nowhere.

He came into the village and walked quickly to the faded wooden sign
that announced, TAILOR. Entering the little shop, more a general
dry-goods store than a tailor, he moved to the rear, to a small
counter. No one was there, and he rang the bell on the counter.

After a moment, a man appeared, hastily buttoning a tunic, his hair
still tousled, sleep in his eyes.

"Yes, yes? What is it? You are too early."

"My apologies, old man," said the raider. "I am looking for a hunting
cloak."

The small man's eyes narrowed. "Ah," he said. "A hunting cloak. I have
several. What did you have in mind."

"Something in gray. To suit my name."

"Ah. And what might you be hunting, Mr.--Gray?"

"An animal of my home planet. It is called a jackal."

"Ah."

The old man suddenly turned from the low rack of cloaks and stared
directly at his customer. His mouth compressed in a thin, bitter line.

"So. You are he. The Mr. Gray who hunts the jackal. Come."

He turned and led the way into his living quarters behind the counter.

"I will tell the others you are here," he said. He left through a rear
door, leaving the raider to wander about the tiny room, inspecting
it without interest. He had seen too many like it in the past five
years to be interested. Dingy little rooms in the back of a store,
insect-ridden chambers in public lodgings, shack in the backwoods
outside a city, too many, too many. And never a place to rest.

_After this one_, he promised himself. _After this one._

Soon the little tailor came back, and there were two others with him.
One was a ferret-eyed little man with a suspicious stare, the other a
heavy-set farmer. The heavy-set man had a scythe in his hand, he had
apparently been on his way to his fields when the tailor found him. He
held the scythe tightly, and the raider could see he was very nervous.
It was probably the first time he had ever come into contact with one
of the raider's--profession. He didn't like it.

Extending his free right hand, the farmer said, "My name is Carroll.
Joseph Carroll. You are--Mr. Gray?"

The raider took the proffered hand warmly, trying to gain this man's
friendship. He would need all the help he could get.

"Gray is my given name, Mr. Carroll. My last name--" he laughed
embarrassedly, "--well, they call me Wolf, for the time being."

"Appropriate," said the man bitterly.

"I'm sorry I have to meet you under these conditions, Mr. Carroll, very
sorry."

The other shrugged, keeping his eyes fixed on the raider's lean, brown
face, trying to guess what sort of mind lay behind it.

"In these times," he said finally, with an air of discouragement, "one
cannot choose either one's friends or the conditions of meeting."

The ferret-eyed man had been watching the exchange closely, and now
he sidled up to the raider with his thin, white hand extended. "Please
forgive Joseph," he said smoothly. "He is not happy about this affair."
His voice exuded a sort of artificial charm, and Wolf found himself
repelled by the man.

"None of us do," he said. He turned to the farmer again, who was
standing uncomfortably, his eyes on the floor. Wolf watched him for a
moment, just long enough for the farmer to know he was being watched.

"Perhaps," said Wolf slowly, "we had better straighten this out right
now."

The heavy-set man looked up defiantly. "All right," he said. "I admit
I do not like this business, I do not like what you are here for, I do
not like what will happen to our village when you are gone."

The thin man laughed. "The old man means to say he is a coward."

"No," said the man stubbornly, without taking his eyes away from Wolf.
"I am not a coward. But your mission means death for many people,
people I call my friends. I do not like that."

"There is a necessity," said Wolf, quietly.

"Perhaps, perhaps," said Joseph Carroll, shaking his head dubiously. "I
do not pretend to understand the political complications. I know only
that, whether you succeed or fail, our village is lost. Our people will
suffer for what you do. Many will probably die. You cannot expect me to
like that."

"No," Wolf agreed. "We do not expect that of you, Joseph. No one
expects you to like this. But, tell me--"

"Yes."

"What was your tax the past year?" Wolf asked.

The old man laughed bitterly. "Seventy-nine percent."

"Enough to live on?"

"Barely," said Carroll, leaning heavily on the scythe. "It means we
must work many hours, sixteen or more a day, in order to survive."

"That is what we fight," said Wolf simply. "That, and the near slavery
of many of the Colonies. Do you know what happens to the money you pay
the Terran Federation in taxes?"

"No," admitted Carroll. "No one has dared ask."

Wolf laughed. "And yet they say the Federation is a republic? When the
citizen does not dare ask what happens to the taxes that are ground out
of him? I'll tell you, my friend Joseph. It is used for administration.
Simply that. Administration of a space empire is an expensive project,
and you must pay for it. It costs a great deal of money, our treasured
Empire. And what does the administration consist of? Machinery to
collect taxes. It is like a snake that feeds on its own tail, Joseph.
Taxes are increased in order to have enough money to collect more
taxes. It never ends."

"This is one thing," said Joseph. "The killing of people is another."

"How many do you know who have died in Debtor's camps, or died because
they could not work hard enough? Joseph, this is no life for a man. The
Colonies cannot develop under the Federation. They must be free to
govern themselves. Otherwise, we have simply a great, cancerous tumor,
spreading through the universe, calling itself the Terran Federation."

Joseph sighed. "All right," he said. "In principle I agree. The
colonies must be free. But is there no other way than murder and
assassination? This violence--what can come of it? And if the
revolution succeeds eventually, how can we know the Federation will not
be replaced by the same thing under another name?"

"Because you will govern yourselves," Wolf said. "Every Colony will be
autonomous, trading as a sovereign nation with the other Colonies. The
idea of a Galactic Empire is self-defeating, Joseph, it is unhealthy,
vicious. The only way man can go to the stars with his head up, is
without dreams of infinite power blinding him."

"You are an idealist," said the ferret-eyed man, with surprise.

"A man must live for something," said Wolf, quietly.

"Certainly, certainly," the thin man agreed quickly. "I was surprised
to find an idealist in your--trade."

"My trade is as distasteful to me as it is to you," said Wolf, speaking
more to Joseph Carroll than to the pale, thin man.

"What will the death of Mayne Landing accomplish?" Carroll asked.

"Confusion. He is the Administrator of over one hundred planets. He
is a strong man, a focal point. Without him, without his personal
strength, the administration of those planets will falter, and stop.
It isn't that he carries on the routine work, of course. But decisions
come from him, the decisions that cannot be made by routine, the
decisions that require a man's creative spark. Without that, the
routine itself cannot stand."

"It rather sounds as if you respect the man," said Carroll.

"Respect him? I--" Wolf hesitated, uncertain. "Yes," he finished. "I
respect him. He is doing what he thinks is right, as I do what I think
is right."

"And you would kill a man for whom you hold no hatred," Carroll
muttered. "This thing is making beasts of us all."

_If you only knew_, thought Wolf, _if you only knew._

"Sometimes it is necessary," he said aloud. "Sometimes bad things are
necessary, that good may follow."

Carroll sighed. "Well, we are committed now. We must go ahead."

"I will need detailed information on Landing's plan of inspection,"
Wolf said.

"You will have it," Carroll told him. "Daimya has been in the city for
five days, listening and watching."

"Good," said Wolf. He felt better now, getting into the operation. This
he knew, this he could handle. It was what he was trained for. It was
the other things that were bad, the thinking, the wondering, the long
nights spent sleepless, uncertain.

"When will he be back?" Wolf asked. "This Daimya."

"She. Daimya is my daughter," Carroll said. "Even our children must
have blood on their hands. She will return this evening."

       *       *       *       *       *

Daimya came, just after dark. Wolf was startled. He had expected a
child, from the way Carroll spoke, and Daimya was far from a child. She
was a slim woman, in her early twenties, he estimated. Her body was
sleek and fit, and her long black hair was tied behind her head, where
it flowed over her back like a waterfall carved from ebony. She had
large eyes, slightly almond shaped, that regarded him solemnly as she
gave the information she had gathered.

"He will come to inspect this village in two days," she said. "He will
visit four farms, picked at random, and then there will be a procession
down the main street."

"That would be our time," Wolf mused. "Crowds about."

"Some will be killed," Daimya objected. "His guards will not take this
thing lightly."

"I am sorry," Wolf said sincerely. "It is our best chance of success."

Daimya shrugged. "You are the killer, not I," she said, with obvious
distaste.

Wolf felt an impulse to explain, to justify, to make this slight girl
see that he hated this. Angrily he fought it down.

_It doesn't matter what she thinks_, he told himself. _It doesn't
matter. What matters is to get the job done and get out. That's all._

"Tell me," Daimya said curiously, "how do you come to be mixed up in a
thing like this? You don't act like a hired killer."

Wolf laughed shortly. "No," he said. "I'm an amateur. I was a Captain
of the Security Patrol once. My whole family was in Federation Service,
as a matter of fact. I was on Colony Patrol for three years. In that
time I saw so much suffering, so much injustice, so much simple cruelty
that--well, never mind. When I was contacted by a member of the
revolution underground, I deserted. It almost killed my father. Since I
was familiar with the Federation's higher echelons, I was assigned the
pleasant job of assassin."

"How many men have you killed in that job?" Daimya asked, almost
casually.

Wolf watched her for a long moment before answering. "You don't want to
know that," he said slowly.

The girl dropped her eyes. "No. No, I guess you're right. I'm sorry."

She stood and went to the door. She stopped there and turned, looking
at Wolf. He met her eyes and held them with his own, frankly, without
embarrassment.

"I'm sorry," she repeated. She closed the door softly behind her, and
Wolf bent to study the map of the village she had provided.

       *       *       *       *       *

The village lay in a cup-shaped valley. The main street was also
a direct highway out of Thanlar. On either side of the highway,
the farmer's fields stretched, checkered brown and green, to the
foothills. The entire valley was not more than a mile wide, and
the fields extended only a quarter of a mile on either side of the
main road. The foothills added another quarter of a mile, and then,
abruptly, the mountains started.

Though one of the principal highways to Thanlar, the main street was
fairly narrow, bordered closely on either side by the small business
district, composed mostly of single story buildings constructed out of
native lumber from the hills.

Wolf decided the center of the business district would offer the most
concealment. Any group of men at any other place would be viewed with
suspicion by Mayne Landing's bodyguards, and their chances would be
proportionately diminished.

It remained to determine the most effective weapon. Explosive? No,
too many villagers would be killed. Yet that would certainly be the
most certain way, a grenade thrown from the roof of one of the low
buildings. He wondered how thoroughly the Administrator's men would
check the village before the procession.

Joseph Carroll told him the check was cursory; except for the spasmodic
attacks of the revolution underground, the Colonies were submissive
enough, and the precautions taken were in the nature of routine.

It looked to be easy, Wolf thought wryly. The easiest of them all,
since the planet was fairly distant from the scene of previous
underground operations.

They wouldn't be expecting it, he thought. Down the main street in
procession, the Administrator standing in the little ground car,
smiling and waving to his subjects, genial, effusive. And then--

"Joseph," said Wolf suddenly. "How many men can I depend on?"

"Perhaps thirty," said the farmer. "Perhaps a few more."

"Are they completely dependable?"

"Within reason," said Carroll. "They are farmers, not soldiers. Plows
are more familiar to them than guns."

"How many can you get me that will obey me without question, no matter
what?"

Joseph Carroll tugged absently at his ear. Finally, he shrugged.
"Perhaps five," he said. "Including myself."

"All right," sighed Wolf. "It will have to be that way, then. But the
others can be depended on 'within reason?'"

"Yes," Carroll said. "Do not expect too much. They do not like this
business."

"Neither do you," Wolf said. "But you count yourself among the five
trustworthy."

Carroll didn't answer, and Wolf took his silence as a declaration of
faith.

"All right," he said. "Leave me now. At sunset, bring your men to me,
all of them. I will work out the attack."

"Very well," said Carroll, and started to leave.

"Joseph," said Wolf softly, and the older man turned at the door.

"What is it?"

"What about Daimya?"

"What about her?"

"Where will she be during--this attack?"

"At home, I expect," said Carroll. "Where she belongs."

Wolf toyed for a moment with the map that lay before him.

"Joseph," he said. "What _will_ happen to the village?"

"You don't know?" asked Carroll in surprise.

"No," Wolf admitted. "I have never stayed behind."

Carroll laughed bitterly. "One of two things," he said. "They will
either demolish it from the air, including the populace, or they will
put everyone in one of the forced labor camps." The farmer made a small
gesture of resignation.

"I didn't know," Wolf said, almost under his breath. _Can I be
responsible for that?_

"They don't like Colonists cooperating with the revolutionaries,"
Carroll continued. "Did you expect they exempted us all from our taxes
as a reward?"

"No," Wolf said. "But I didn't know it was so--complete."

"They are thorough," the old man shrugged. "Any village where an
incident occurs is made an example. Before long, you people will not
find much welcome in the Colonies."

"I suppose not," Wolf mused. "Perhaps by then--"

"You really believe you're going to succeed in overthrowing the
Federation, don't you?"

"I must," said Wolf. "Without that, all this--" he gestured to the map
before him, traced with arrows, notations, ideas, "--is meaningless
slaughter."

"So it seems," Carroll said flatly.

"Joseph," said Wolf suddenly. "With luck, there will be a ship waiting
for me in the mountains when I've--finished here."

"That's your good fortune," Carroll said grimly.

"Will you come with me?"

"And join the revolutionaries?"

"You--and Daimya."

Carroll considered it slowly. "No," he said finally. "Not I. I have
gotten my people into this, I must stay with them. All were against it
when you first contacted us. All but me. It is my fault. I have to stay
with them."

Wolf felt a sudden surge of affection for the old man. Reluctant he
might be, but he knew what he was doing and he knew the consequences
and was willing to accept them.

"And Daimya?"

"That is a different matter," said Carroll. "It is not right that she
should suffer for her father's folly."

_Or that a father should suffer for his son's folly_, thought Wolf. But
he said nothing.

"You would take her?" Carroll asked.

"If I am--able," said Wolf.

"All right," said the old man. "I will see to it. Better she should be
alive than dead. That is all that matters."

       *       *       *       *       *

Wolfs final plan was simple. He had not enough men to count on a direct
attack. The major work would be performed by the dependable five,
of which Carroll assured him. The others would be used to create a
diversion to cover the actual assault.

There was a slight bend to the highway just before it entered the
village. When the procession passed this point, they would see a
group of men disperse quickly into the low scrub at the side of the
road. This would put them on their guard, they would be apprehensive,
watching.

When the procession had entered the village itself and was within the
short commercial strip, there would be an explosion back of them.
Grenades, perhaps some shooting. If Wolf's prediction were accurate,
this would divert the attention of at least the major portion of guards
for long enough.

Long enough for the five men in the crowd to do what they had to do--

"This must be timed perfectly," he told the man who was to head the
diversionary squad.

"I understand that."

"Too soon or too late, either will destroy us. It will take us too long
to reach the Administrator. He must be exactly opposite the tailor's
shop. It must be done right."

"It will be done right."

"If it is not, all the sacrifices are for nothing, you understand that?
The consequences will be as bad, or worse, for the village, and we will
have accomplished nothing. If the Administrator is dead, there will
be time for most of the villagers to escape into the hills before the
Federation can take action against them."

The man left, after Wolf had provided him with the weapons his group
would need from his cache on the nearby hillside.

The dependable five were instructed in their parts, and then there was
nothing to do but wait.

The next morning dawned clear. The air was cool, a slight breeze
ruffled the fields around the village. As the sun rose higher in the
sky, it glinted sharply from the towers of Thanlar.

It had been impossible to keep the entire operation a secret from
the villagers. They knew something was to happen, and they knew it
concerned the inspection trip of Mayne Landing to the village. It was
not hard to guess what it was.

As the day drew on toward noon, the tension of the people grew. Small
knots of farmers gathered on the corners, their fields forgotten for
the day, talking low.

Wolf didn't like it, it was too obvious. The village was primed, ready
to explode, and he was afraid the tension would make the guards _too_
alert. They had to be just tense enough to respond to the diversion,
not enough so they would be watching _everywhere_. He was counting on
an instinctive, rapid response.

He sat behind the tailor shop, talking to his men with a confidence and
calm he did not feel. He spoke as if the success of the mission were a
foregone fact, and the escape of the villagers into the hills. But he
knew it was tenuous.

Perhaps he had planned it too critically. Perhaps a simple direct
attack would have been better. Perhaps, perhaps--

Any number of things were possible, he thought. But it was done now. If
he had made a mistake, they would know soon.

On the contraband comset behind the tailor shop, Wolf had called the
mother-ship that hovered just out of detection range. All right, they
confirmed, there would be a shuttle in the hills back of the town. Did
he know the shuttle that had brought him had been lost? No? Well, it
had. With the whole crew aboard.

_That many more_, thought Wolf. _If anybody's keeping a list, I've got
a lot to my credit. Or damnation._ And, bitterly: _More friends than
enemies._

Don't think about it. Do your job and get the hell out. If you can.

He spoke to Daimya, but on her father's advice did not tell her of his
plan to take her along.

"She won't go voluntarily," the old man said frankly. "We will have to
pretend we are all going to the hills. After that--" he nodded slowly,
"--the problem is yours."

"I will take care of her, Joseph," Wolf had promised, and the
sun-browned farmer had clasped his hand tightly in a mute gesture of
hopefulness.

"You understand--a man and his daughter--you understand?"

_More than you probably know, Joseph._

"Yes," he said aloud. "I think I understand."

And then came the word that the Administrator's procession was in
sight.

Wolf looked at his five dependables. He passed each face slowly,
as if he had never seen them before. They were young, and old, and
middle-aged. They were dark from the hours in the sun, strong from the
work that pulled their muscles for the long hours each day. They smiled
at him, grimly, nervous, but they were good men.

_The faces of freedom_, Wolf thought. _These are the faces and the
bodies of freedom._

Then it was time.

       *       *       *       *       *

The streets were lined with silent people when the procession came into
view around the slight curve.

Then there was a tentative cheer from someone. It was taken up by
someone else, and soon the crowd was roaring its synthetic appreciation
of Administrator Mayne Landing. Wolf breathed easier.

Craning his neck in the crowd, Wolf spotted the other five, standing
dispersed in the crowd, but all near the spot on the street opposite
the tailor's shop. They made no acknowledgement except meeting his
eyes, then turning away to watch the procession near.

As they came closer, Wolf noted with satisfaction that several of the
guards occasionally glanced at the street behind them.

Good. They had seen the knot of men outside town, then. If they
expected anything, they were expecting it from behind them.

He could see the tall, straight figure of Mayne Landing in the ground
car. He took in the familiar face almost hungrily, the great shock
of white hair moving gently in the slight breeze, the characteristic
gesture, a half-salute, the slight smile, the kindly eyes of the old
man--

He tore his eyes away from the dignified figure and glanced behind him,
down the street. He saw a figure move on a roof-top, and wondered if
the guards saw it, too.

Then the ground car was opposite, and Wolf had a wrenching sensation
that the diversionary squad was not going to go through with it....

An explosion rocked the street a block away, shaking the ground
underfoot, shattering windows in the adjacent stores. A billow of dirty
black smoke began to drift toward the sky. There was a scattering of
small, explosive fire.

The tone of the crowd's roar changed. It deepened and became a mass cry
of confusion and fright.

Quietly, Wolf edged forward to the street, automatically noting that
his men were doing the same. Several of the guards had turned, were
running back toward the source of the excitement, and others were
turned toward it. But those around Mayne Landing had not responded.
They were keeping their eyes fixed on the crowd. They were too well
trained to be drawn off, and Wolf cursed under his breath.

He stopped his forward motion and waited, rocking on the balls of his
feet. This was the part he hadn't told his five about.

Suddenly there was a flurry in the crowd on the opposite side of
the street. The nearest guard whirled, in time to draw his hand gun
and fire. The first of the five sprawled in the street, a bloody
stump where his head had been. But the guard's blast had not been in
time to stop the long mowing knife that buried itself to the hilt in
his throat. He lurched forward, dropping the hand gun. His momentum
carried him almost into the edge of the crowd, and a woman screamed
hysterically.

Wolf's other men had been only a fraction of a second behind the first,
and the street was now a chaos of shouting and the sharp, flat reports
of the guards' hand guns. The crowd milled frantically, adding to the
confusion as the attackers leaped at the procession.

Wolf waited, waited, watching for the single split-second when the
guards were fully engaged with the crowd.

Then it came, and their heads were momentarily turned away from Mayne
Landing.

Wolf sprinted from the crowd, the short stiletto cradled in his hand.
He leaped to the side of the ground car just as Mayne Landing turned
toward him.

He saw the old man's face clearly in that moment. It held no fear, but
only an unbelievable surprise, an astonishment beyond understanding.
Then the stiletto slid gently into the throat, severing the jugular,
and all surprise and emotion was lost in the implacable blank agony
of death. The still-pumping heart forced a pulsing stream of bright
arterial blood around the blade of the knife.

Then, as quickly as he had come, Wolf was gone. He slipped back
through the crowd, into the door of the tailor shop. Seconds later,
Joseph Carroll was there, one side of his gray farmer's tunic turning
brown-black from the blood that soaked it.

"Come on!" Carroll snapped, running for the back.

"What about the others?"

"Gone," said the old man shortly. "All of them." He dashed out the door
of the tailor shop into the back and Wolf followed him.

"Daimya!" Wolf shouted.

"She's waiting for us in the foothills."

The sound of the crowd and the blasting of hand guns was loud behind
them as they began their dash across the checkered fields. For a few
moments, nothing followed. Then Wolf heard a faint shout behind them,
and a huge gout of dirt erupted from the field beside him, almost
knocking him down.

He regained his balance and started to run low, crouched and
zig-zagging while the tiny explosive pellets pocked the field around
him. It seemed an eternity before they had crossed the field, but he
knew it was not more than a couple of minutes.

Joseph Carroll was ahead of him, already beginning to tear through the
scrub growth of the foothills, making his way up. Just as he entered
the undergrowth, Wolf saw the old man joined by a smaller, slighter
figure.

There was a roar in his ears, and he fell, a searing pain across his
back. Numbly, he realized he'd been hit, but somehow it didn't seem
important. He picked himself up and followed Carroll into the scrub.
Soon he was out of sight of their pursuers, though the explosions of
their weapons still followed them with uncanny accuracy.

He caught up with the old man and his daughter in a small clearing.
Carroll lay with his head cradled in Daimya's lap, gasping for breath.

"We've got to go on," Wolf said. "Come on, I'll help."

"You're hurt!" the girl said.

"Not badly. Come on, we've got to get your father out of here!"

The old man put his arms around the shoulders of the other two, and
they struggled up the hill, breaking their way through the brush,
slipping, sometimes falling. Behind them, there was still the
occasional sound of the explosive pellets, and infrequently, one came
very near.

"Close," muttered Wolf as an explosion showered them with dirt.
"They're on the path now."

They went a few steps farther, and Joseph slumped between them.

"Dad!" called Daimya. "Please! Please try to go on!"

Wolfs hand slid down the old man's back, came away warm and wet.

He was silent for a moment, then gently lowered the suddenly limp body
to the ground.

"Come on," he said to Daimya. The girl was standing over the inert
form of her father, not understanding what had happened, words of
encouragement still on her lips.

"Dad?" she said, bewildered.

Wolf took her arm. "Daimya, he's gone. Come on."

"No--Dad--" She knelt beside him on the ground.

"Sorry, Daimya," Wolf said under his breath. He swung, hitting her
cleanly behind the head. The girl collapsed soundlessly, and he slung
her over his shoulder and started on up the hill.

Finally, he cleared the crest. Just beyond it, lying in a tiny meadow
lay the black, unmarked shuttle ship. As he came in view, the port
opened and a man ran toward him. Wolf stumbled, caught his balance,
went on.

"Here," said the crewman, "let me take her."

Silently, out of fatigue, Wolf relinquished his load and stumbled
toward the port. It slid shut behind them, just in time to keep them
from being covered with dirt blown from a hole that suddenly appeared a
yard behind. Wolf caught a glimpse of men appearing at the crest.

Inside the ship, he could hear the thud and clang of the explosive
cartridges detonating uselessly against the permalloy hull. Then the
drives roared their song of power, and the shuttle lifted clear.

       *       *       *       *       *

The crewmen were more than curious.

"Who the hell's the girl?"

"Got me. Never heard of such a thing."

"Well, I suppose a Raider has a right to pick up a little booty now and
then," another laughed. "They don't have the easiest job in the world."

"Bet she's going to be mad when she wakes up."

"Yeah. Looks like the Raider might be worrying a little about that
right now."

Wolf stood at the forward screen, silently watching the shape of the
mother-ship grow larger and larger until the screen held nothing but
the great black hull.

The crewmen were wrong, he wasn't worried about Daimya's waking. He
could take care of that when the time came.

He was thinking about other things, the things that came to him when he
slept, the faces, the names, the actions, the right and wrong of living
according to what you think is right, no matter what the cost.

But the cost, the cost....

It was so high sometimes, so terribly high.

_This trip_, he thought. A shuttle crew. Five good men, probably the
whole village, eventually. Those who did escape into the hills would
lead a life of fear and pursuit, foraging as they went until finally
they were caught. And worst of all, this was worst of all, and mentally
he saw the list, the list of his responsibilities, the list for which
he would someday have to account.

The bright name of Mayne Landing: victim.

His mind shied away from it.

_Can that be forgiven? Can such a thing ever be forgiven?_

Gray Landing, called Wolf in the underground, turned away from the
forward screen and began to prepare to board the mother-ship.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Raider, by Don Berry

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE RAIDER ***

***** This file should be named 60460.txt or 60460.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/0/4/6/60460/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
